.TH VALYRIATEAR 6 "2013\-01\-07" "games" "Valyria Tear Manual"
.SH NAME
valyriatear \- Valyria Tear is a free 2D J-RPG based on the Hero of Allacrost engine.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B valyriatear [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Valyria Tear is a free (as meant in the Gnu Public License) 2D J-RPG game
based on the Hero of Allacrost engine.

You can play it very much like a typical console role-playing game.
You can explore maps and talk to non-playable characters (NPCs),
fight active-time battles against multiple enemies,
and manage your characters and equipment through a series of menus.
Valyria Tear runs in a series of "game modes" which represent
different states of operation in the game.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-check
Checks all files for integrity
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-debug <args>
enables debug statements in specifed sections of the program,
where <args> can be:
all, audio, battle, boot, data, global, input, map, mode_manager,
pause, quit, scene, system, utils, video
.TP
.B \-\-disable-audio
Disables loading and playing audio
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Prints the help menu
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-info
Prints information about the user's system
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-reset
Resets game configuration to use default settings

.SH GAME INPUT
Valyria Tear players can input commands to the game either through the keyboard
or a gamepad/joystick. Mouse input is not supported.

The table below lists the standard set of user input commands,
their default keyboard mappings, and their general purpose.

Most of these keys can be re-mapped from the Valyria Tear main menu
(the boot screen you see when first starting Valyria Tear).

.TP
.B Up Arrow:
Move sprite or cursor upwards
.TP
.B Down Arrow:
Move sprite or cursor downwards
.TP
.B Left Arrow:
Move sprite or cursor to the left
.TP
.B Right Arrow:
Move sprite or cursor to the right
.TP
.B Key F:
Confirm an action or menu command
.TP
.B Key D:
Cancel an action or menu command
.TP
.B Key S:
Display the main menu
.TP
.B Key A:
Swap the character being displayed
.TP
.B Key W:
Select multiple targets or page scroll up
.TP
.B Key E:
Select multiple targets or page scroll down
.TP
.B Key Spacebar:
Pause/unpause the game
.TP
.B Key ESC:
Quit the game

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Yohann Ferreira and Erik Schilling

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to https://github.com/Bertram25/ValyriaTear/issues

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright  ©  2012  Valyria Tear Development Team  License GPLv2: GNU
GPL version 2 <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
This is free software: you are free  to  change  and  redistribute  it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

